[TT-9019] Improved wording of size limits (#2601)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/basic-config-and-security/control-limit-traffic/request-size-limits.md

date: 2017-03-23T17:18:54Z
title: Request Size Limits
tags: ["Request size limits"]
description: "The key concepts for implementing request size limits with Tyk"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Control & Limit Traffic"
weight: 4 
---

## Overview

> With Tyk, you are able to apply limits to the size of requests made to your HTTP APIs; you might do this to protect your upstream services or even the gateway itself, for example, to avoid excessive memory usage or brute force attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Tyk, you can apply limits to the size of requests made to your HTTP APIs to protect upstream services or even the gateway itself. For example, to avoid excessive memory usage or brute force attacks.
```

Tyk offers a flexible tiered system of limiting request sizes ranging from globally applied limits across all APIs deployed on the gateway down to specific size limits for individual API endpoints.

All size limits are stated in bytes and are applied only to the request _body_, excluding the headers.

> Tyk compares each incoming API request with the configured maximum size(s) and will reject any request that exceeds the size you have set, returning an HTTP 400 error with the message "Request is too large".

Reviewer: Should it return HTTP 413?

Author: We return this (HTTP 413 Content Too Large) for the Gateway-level size limit, but I think we return (400 Request is too large) for the others... will check.

Author: So, turns out we return:
`413 Request Entity Too Large` for `max-request-body-size` check (Gateway-level)
`400 Request is too large` for the API-level and endpoint-level checks

I'll propose changes

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

> Tyk Cloud Classic automatically enforces a strict request size limit of 1MB on all inbound requests via our cloud architecture. This does not affect Multi-Cloud users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tyk Cloud Classic enforces a strict request size limit of 1MB on all inbound requests via our cloud architecture. This does not affect Multi-Cloud users.
```

I mean there's no other way than automatically, it's redundant

> Tyk Cloud Classic automatically enforces a strict request size limit of 1MB an all inbound requests via our cloud architecture. This does not affect Multi-Cloud users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Cloud Classic automatically enforces a strict request size limit of 1MB on all inbound requests via our cloud architecture. This does not affect Multi-Cloud users.
```

{{< /note >}}

> ### Applying a size limit for all APIs on your Gateway

Reviewer: looks similar, did mean something else?

> You can optionally configure a request size limit (in bytes) that will be applied to all APIs on your Tyk Gateway by adding `max_request_body_size` to the `http_server_options` [element]({{< ref "/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#http_server_options" >}}) of your `tyk.conf` Gateway configuration, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can optionally configure a request size limit (in bytes) that will be applied to all APIs on your Tyk Gateway by adding `max_request_body_size` to the `http_server_options` [element]({{< ref "/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#http_server_options" >}}) of your `tyk.conf` Gateway configuration. For example:
```

```
"max_request_body_size": 5000
```

> This Gateway-wide size limit will be evaluated before per-API or per-endpoint settings.

Author: ```suggestion
This Gateway-wide size limit will be evaluated before per-API or per-endpoint settings. If this test fails, the Tyk Gateway will report `413 Request Entity Too Large`.
```

> ### Applying a size limit for a specific API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Applying a size limit for a specific API

```

Reviewer: looks similar, did mean something else?

You can optionally configure a request size limit (in bytes) to an API by adding `global_size_limit` to the `version` element of the API Definition, for example:
```
"global_size_limit": 2500 
```

> This limit is applied for all endpoints _within an API_. It is evaluated after the Gateway-wide size limit and before any endpoint-specific size limit.

Author: ```suggestion
This limit is applied for all endpoints _within an API_. It is evaluated after the Gateway-wide size limit and before any endpoint-specific size limit. If this test fails, the Tyk Gateway will report `400 Request is too large`.
```

> This limit is applied for all endpoints _within an API_, is evaluated after the Gateway-wide size limit and before any endpoint-specific size limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This limit is applied for all endpoints _within an API_. It is evaluated after the Gateway-wide size limit and before any endpoint-specific size limit.
```

> ### Applying a size limit for a specific API endpoint

Reviewer: looks similar, did mean something else?

> Tyk provides a _Request Size Limit_ middleware that can be configured per API endpoint, to give you the most granular control over request sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk provides a _Request Size Limit_ middleware that can be configured per API endpoint. This gives you the most granular control over request sizes.
```

You can configure this easily from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard, or by manually adding the configuration to your API definition.

> This limit will be applied after any Gateway-level or API-level size limits; in keeping with the other size limit options provided by Tyk, this value is given in bytes.

Author: ```suggestion
This limit will be applied after any Gateway-level or API-level size limits; in keeping with the other size limit options provided by Tyk, this value is given in bytes. If this test fails, the Tyk Gateway will report `400 Request is too large`.
```

> This limit will be applied after any Gateway-level or API-level size limits; as for all of the size limit options provided by Tyk, this value is given in bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This limit will be applied after any Gateway-level or API-level size limits. For all of the size limit options provided by Tyk, this value is given in bytes.
```

Author: How about:
```suggestion
This limit will be applied after any Gateway-level or API-level size limits; in keeping with the other size limit options provided by Tyk, this value is given in bytes.
```

#### Using the Tyk Dashboard

> To enforce a request size limit for a specific API endpoint, you will use from your API Endpoint Designer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From your API Endpoint Designer, to enforce a request size limit for a specific API endpoint:
```

Author: I missed this when I rewrote the page, how about:

```suggestion
You can enforce a request size limit for a specific API endpoint using the API Endpoint Designer:
```

> #### Using the Tyk Dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using the Tyk Dashboard

```

Reviewer: looks similar, did mean something else?

5.  Save the API.

> #### Manually configuring the API Definition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Manually configuring the API Definition

```

Reviewer: looks similar, did mean something else?
